# Code for epsSMASH paper
Repository for data analysis and figure generation in epsSMASH paper

## Repository structure

**data/**\
Contains the data used by the Rmd files in the main directory for generating the figure and analyses in the paper. Metadata from other articles (Bundalovic-Torma et al., Dueholm et al., Microflora Danica... must be added to the respective directories from the articles) as well as results generated by epsSMASH on large genome collections (using https://github.com/zreitz/multismash to generate the all_regions.tsv+region_counts.tsv files). Some scripts refer to `gene_info.tsv` files, which contain gene-level information about epsSMASH BGC results. These were generated from the epsSMASH results using a custom multismash_parser python script (https://github.com/AOHD/multismash_parser) and have not been included in the Github repo due to their size. Some folders in data contain scripts for formatting or downloading `data/` (such as the efetch script in `data/Bundalovic-Torma/`).

**figures/**\
Contains .svg files of the figures used in the paper

**scripts/**\
Folder containing scripts used to generate the figures and analyses in the article. Rmd files contain the code for the figure mentioned in the file name. For figure 3, the GOMC, MFD, MiDAS_Global and HumGut .Rmd files must be run before Fig3.Rmd can be run. The Rmd files pull data from `data/` to create the figures. Bigscape bash scripts create sequence similarity networks from the epsSMASH output from the four genome catalogues using BiG-SCAPE 2.0. The `pel-like` directory contains scripts for creating novel pel pHMMs as described in the article. `sphingomonadales` contains scripts for gene-calling sphingomonadales MAGs from GTDB, searching for PEP-CTERM and exosortase genes in them as well as creating their phylogenomic tree. `uncharacterised` contains a script for analysing novel GCFs with clinker. `contig.stats.sh` was used to calculate the contig stats of the genomes in the four genome cataloges.

**results/**\
Results contains output from the scripts in the `scripts/` directory.

**supplemental_data/**\
Folder containing the .tsv file created in Fig3.Rmd which catalogs all exoPS BGCs detected by epsSMASH in the four genome catalogues.